So let's continue implementing pagination on the front-end.
So we got a couple of things I want to improve and one thing I actually want to improve first is I want
to show a spinner
whenever we are changing the page. We already got the isLoading property which we are using in a template
to display a spinner,
so I'll just reuse that. In post list component, whenever we are changing the page,
I will set loading to true and we're setting it back to false automatically once we get updated posts.
So this is now showing a spinner,
I also want to make sure that the paginator is only shown if we show the accordion because if we
got no posts, then there is no reason to show the paginator.
I also want to show it whilst we are loading though, so I'll copy the entire ngIf clause but then I
will add it here,
I will remove that isLoading condition because I want to show it all the time, I want to update it though
to only show it if we got more than zero posts but also whilst we are loading.
So with that in place if we go back, we can see that in action, we get the spinner here,
now it's time to work on these other issues
and one of them of course is that I also want to know how many posts we have in total.
Now that is something we can find out on the back-end, here where we are fetching all the posts,
we also can find out which posts or how many posts we have
and for that, we can combine multiple different queries.
Thus far we have one query which we narrowed down,
now here where we got documents, I don't want to create a response yet,
instead I will return another query which will be executed.
I will return post count where find finds
all results, count
will just count them and return that number and we don't need to chain then here, if we return it in
a then block, it will basically create a new promise and listen to its result automatically
and we can simply chain then here therefore and now we're chaining multiple then calls on the query.
And here I know I will get my count and here, I then want to create my response.
So first I'm fetching all the posts and then I'm issuing another query where I get the count and then
here I have the count.
Now one thing, the documents cannot be used in this then block because they're an argument in this function
passed to the first then block. To still use them in the second,
I will store them in a variable, so at the beginning
above all my then blocks, I'll create a new variable, posts
or maybe fetchedPosts,
it's undefined initially and I'll assign documents as a value here in the first block,
we can then use fetchedPosts down there.
So now we're returning the fetch posts but now I also want to return a new piece of information,
my maxPosts, you can name this however you want of course which is my count, so the number of posts we
have in the database in total. With that, we're returning this new piece of information to the front-end,
there we now have to use it
and in the posts service where we get all the posts,
this means we have to update the type of data we get back from the back-end.
We don't just have a message in posts,
we also have that new maxPosts property and that will be of type number.
So now we got that too,
now of course this means we have to adjust our logic here where we transform the posts.
We don't just want to pass on the transformed post array,
instead we want to pass on an object which contains both the updated post array where all the posts have
an ID without an underscore and the maximum amount of posts.
So here in map, I will actually return a Javascript object which has a post property,
let's also close the object down there
but besides that post property, it also has a maxPosts property which simply takes the data from post
data
max posts.
So now we're returning this object with the posts and the max posts,
all data from our database and from our back-end therefore. Now here in the subscribe method,
we therefore no longer get the transformed posts but the transformed post data you could say
and that object will have a post property which holds the posts but it will also hold some information
about our maximum amount of posts and I want to use that too of course. Here where I emit data,
I no longer just want to pass on an array of posts, so I will change the generic type of my subject because
it should now be a Javascript object which has a posts property which is an array of posts but I also
want to have a second property which is let's say post count which is a number.
So I just updated the type of data
our subject yields. For our subject to yield that updated data,
I need to go down there where I call next and instead of just passing a copy of the array, I will pass
a Javascript object which has a posts property which holds this copy of posts and it will have a post
count property which holds my transformed post data max posts value.
So now this is the object I'm emitting, this is now holding both the posts and the post count and we
can use this in Angular.
Now we get a couple of errors to fix in this file
therefore and let's do that and all the connecting Angular to this logic stuff in the next lectures.